In this lecture, I wanna spend more time
with Wireshark showing you how to filter all
of these packets to only display the useful packets,
how to trace them, what do they mean,
and how to display more information about
each one of these packets.
Now what we did on the target computer so far,
we most of the traffic that we generated
was HTTP traffic,
so to get rid of all this information that's hard
for us to read,
we're just gonna type in here in the filters.
We're just gonna type in http.
Hit enter,
and as you can see now that filtered all the packets
to HTTP traffic only.
So this is the traffic that was basically sent
by the browser and is usually sent by web browsers.
They always send traffic over HTTP or HTTPS.
And since we're downgraded HTTPS to HTTP,
you wanna use the HTTP filter to see everything
that a target person is doing on the browser,
regardless of what they're doing.
Whether they're browsing websites,
whether they're watching a video,
whether they're looking at images,
whatever they're looking, it will be loaded over HTTP.
So looking at the first record right here,
we can see that this request is sent from
this IP, which is the IP of my target
to an IP on the internet.
So we can see that this is not a private IP,
this is an IP on the internet.
So it's sent to a server.
And if we double click this record,
we'll get much more information about the packet itself.
So we have the information about the frame,
which includes the size of the packet.
It includes the interface that it was sent on,
the time, and all that.
In the internet, we have information about the source MAC
address and the destination MAC address.
So where did this packet go from and where did it go to?
Remember when I first spoke about packets and how
they always travel from a source MAC to a destination MAC?
So this information is all stored in here.
In the internet protocol, we have information about
the IPs, so in the internet we had information about
the MAC addresses.
In the internet protocol, we have information about
the source IP and the destination IP
for this particular packet.
And the transmission protocol we have information
about the port, so we can see that this went from this
source port to port 80.
This is usually the default port used on web servers,
so in most cases whenever data is sent to a website,
it'll always be sent to port 80.
But the most important part in here is the hypertext
transfer protocol, which is basically the data sent
over HTTP.
Clicking on this will give us information on whatever
data has been sent over HTTP.
And like I said, this would contain everything
that was sent to and from a browser.
So right here we can see that this particular packet
sent a get request to a website called google.ie.
Now this is literally when we typed google.ie,
we didn't search for anything.
We didn't really do anything.
You can also expand this to see more information
about the actual request.
And you can even see the HTTP header sent if you wanna
get more information about this particular request.
Now this whole method of getting information follows
with all types of packets,
so you can double click any packet you have
and you'll be able to read the data sent
within this packet.
Now you can also in here see an arrow,
which basically means that this was a request
and the arrow back here marks that this was
a response to this request right here.
Now moving down you can see also see requests
for images.
What you can also do is click on any of these packets,
for example, again back to this get request,
right click it, and go to Follow HTTP Stream.
And this will basically follow the stream
that this request has caused, all the way down
to the response.
So if I click it, you'll see the response for this
particular request was this right here.
You can see that this was a PNG,
and literally the binary content of this PNG image
is right here.
So as you can see we're literally getting the raw data
in here.
Now I'm gonna close this and go back to what we had,
which was HTTP.
Now if we keep going down.
You literally see everything that has been sent
and received by the target.
So, for example, again in here we can see this was
a JavaScript file that was loaded by Google.
Then in here we can see another get request.
And this get request was where we searched for
that security, so you can even see the search term in here.
So let me double click this to show you in more details.
Again, this automatically went
to the hypertext protocol part.
Like I said, this is the HTTP part.
Whatever that gets sent to the browser,
and you can see that this was sent to google.com
first of all and the URI, so whatever went after
google.com was search and what we were searching
for that zsecurity which is exactly what we typed in here.
Again, in here you can see the full URL
with the search term.
This is literally what the user gets and their URL
bar in here.
So as you can see Wireshark literally shows everything
that flows through the interface.
In this lecture I wanted to show you a quick overview
on how we can filter data.
And don't worry too much about this.
We'll actually be using it more in the next lectures
and we will see how we can easily use it
to filter data and discover useful information.